do you want to become a better public
speaker without ever leaving the comfort
of your own home well you're in luck
because in this video I am going to show
you four ways you can practice public
speaking on a regular basis without ever
leaving your house my first tip is to
record yourself practicing your speech
and there's a few reasons you want to do
this first when we hit that record
button all of a sudden there's some form
of stakes something's on the line we
feel as though we have to perform to a
certain level because we're recording
ourself so it simulates that pressure
situation but the next thing is that
you're going to learn things about
yourself or maybe notice some tendencies
that you have when speaking when you
watch back that recording on the verbal
side you may notice that you have filler
words filler words are words or sounds
such as uh
um and so but like they're essentially
these words or sounds that we put in
between sentences instead of Silence but
they actually take away from our overall
message therefore the goal is to
eliminate some of these filler words
from our speech and you may be using a
filler word or sound that you're not
even aware of so when you watch back
that recording and you see that you said
um seven times that's a good reminder
for future practice sessions to try to
eliminate that word from your future
speeches what you can also do is you can
watch back the recording without the
sound on and by doing this you're really
going to focus on your body language and
I've talked about this many times before
on my channel but body language makes up
a huge percentage of the way a message
is communicated and that's everything
from our eyes to our faal gestures to
what we're doing with our hands to how
we're moving throughout the stage and
there may be tendencies that we have
that we don't realize such as leaning on
a chair or swaying back and forth as we
talk or putting our hands in our pocket
kind of awkwardly and by watching back
the recording of our s it's really going
to help us to notice these Tendencies
and then improve that in the future the
second way you can practice public
speaking from home is to switch up the
environments or the rooms that you're
practicing your speech in this is
something I personally do often because
I like to give myself different visuals
as I'm practicing my speech because the
reality is for most presentations we may
not know what the room layout is going
to look like or how the sunlight will be
coming in the room or what the lighting
will be like and I find from home from
practicing in a few different rooms and
trying to visualize to the best of my
ability what the room setup might be
like it helps me in the fact that I am
familiar with different environments so
when I get to the brand new environment
where I'm giving my speech I'm already
prepared for this something you want to
do is try to replicate the situation of
how you will be giving the speech for
example if you're using slides and those
slides are going to be coming from your
laptop through an HDMI cord often we can
set up our laptop in front of us and it
almost acts as a comfort monitor so we
can see our slides by quickly looking
down and what's beneficial about this is
we don't have to turn around and look
back at our slides and turn the back to
the audience and if this is going to be
the setup where you're giving a meeting
or presentation
try to do the same thing bring your
laptop to the different rooms with you
and practice in presenting mode having
the slide up in front of you so you can
really visualize as if the audience was
there and then also look at your slides
just like you will on the day of and one
of those rooms you're practicing in
should have a mirror because from time
to time it's a good idea to practice
your speech while looking in the mirror
and this is similar to the first tip of
recording recing yourself on a phone by
presenting and seeing yourself in the
mirror you will become aware of some of
the gestures or facial expressions that
you're using in real time and this is
going to help you on the day of the
speech my third tip for practicing
public speaking from home is to consider
joining a toast Master's Club virtually
I talk a lot on this channel about the
power and the benefit of Toast Masters
International and the various Club
across the world and I think a huge
benefit of those clubs is the in-person
meetings because there's something about
presenting in person to a room full of
people and having that that real life
feel and in person it's a pressure that
doesn't totally exist virtually so I
think that that's the ultimate way to
practice but maybe that's not an option
for you maybe you're closest Toast
Masters Club is an hour drive away and
you can't get there it's it's too much
of a hassle to go to those meetings
every single week and virtual attendance
is your only option and I will say this
is a great secondary option because you
can still practice presenting in a
virtual form you can look at the camera
to practice eye contact and you get all
of the other benefits of Toast Masters
which includes real time
evaluations people who want to help you
become a better public speaker will
listen to your speech and give you
feedback and being part of that
Community can truly help and the best
part is some clubs who offer virtual
attendance means you can practice
without leaving the comfort of your home
my final tip for practicing public
speaking from home is an app that I have
talked about a few times before on my
channel and this is an app called speo
and to date it is probably the best
public speaking tool I have come across
it is an app that helps you practice
presentations practice meetings practice
interviews and even something called
random prompt which for those who are
familiar with Toastmasters Toastmasters
has table topics questions which are
random questions that you're asked and
random prompt through the SPO app allows
you to do a similar thing it will ask
you a question and you have 2 minutes to
respond if you don't have access or
perhaps you can't afford the Toast
Masters Club there are free versions of
this spico app they are on iPhone I
believe they're working to bring the app
to Android as well but this is something
that's going to help you learn about
your pacing your word choice we talked
about filler words earlier it will
identify filler words you use often
throughout your speech your
eloquence all of the sorts of things
that we want to know and we want to get
feedback on this app which utilizes AI
technology is able to give you that
feedback and if you have the means and
you're interested in doing the pro
version of SPO which is the version I'm
personally on I do have a link in my
episode description that is going to
give you about a 15% discount to the pro
version of the app but again there are
many tools that don't cost you money but
if there's this is something you really
want to take to the next level consider
getting the SPO pro version being a
confident speaker is all about
consistent practice and whether that
practice is in person at a Toast Masters
meeting through giving many
presentations or even practicing from
the comfort of your home which is some
of the things we talked about today the
key is that you practice and I hope that
these tips will help you practice easier
from your own house what was your
favorite tip let me know in the comments
if this video was helpful for you hit
that thumbs up so more people can
discover this video as well and if you
have not yet subscribed to my Channel
please do so because it is my goal to
help you with your communication skills
and to grow Confidence from the stage
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch this video